Use pixi to manage development conda environments (#3044)
ESMValGroup/ESMValCore: doc/quickstart/install.rst

For a minimal mamba installation (recommended) go to
https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/micromamba-installation.html.

.. tip::

   It is recommended that you always use the latest version of mamba, as
   problems have been reported when trying to use older versions.

Once you have installed mamba, you can install ESMValCore by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba install -c conda-forge esmvalcore

It is also possible to create a new
`Conda environment <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/getting-started.html#creating-environments>`_
and install ESMValCore into it with a single command:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba create --name esmvalcore -c conda-forge esmvalcore

Don't forget to activate the newly created environment after the installation:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba activate esmvalcore

Of course it is also possible to choose a different name than ``esmvalcore`` for the environment.

.. note::

	  Creating a new Conda environment is often much faster and more reliable than trying to update an existing Conda environment.

Pip installation
-----------------

> 

Reviewer: What's the reason we mention this here? Is there any advantage of doing that over the mamba installation? Just saying "installing dependencies that are not available on PyPI in some other way" is also not really helpful.

I would argue we should remove that, especially since this is the section targeted to regular users (not developers).

Author: Some people really don't like installing things with conda, so I think it is important that we mention that we have a PyPI package. Of course, we could do that in a different way. Do you have ideas on how that could be improved?

Author: For example, for xarray they explain it like this: https://docs.xarray.dev/en/stable/getting-started-guide/installing.html#instructions

Reviewer: I guess with the new warning that we recommend mamba instead of pip this should be fine. Since I do not know how to install the dependencies without mamba/conda, I don't have a better suggestion.

It is also possible to install ESMValCore from `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/ESMValCore/>`_.
However, this requires first installing dependencies that are not available
on PyPI in some other way.
The list of required dependencies can be found in
:download:`pyproject.toml <../../pyproject.toml>`.

.. warning::

    It is recommended to use the installation with mamba instead, as it may not
    be easy to install the correct versions of all dependencies.

After installing the dependencies that are not available from PyPI_, install
ESMValCore and any remaining Python dependencies with the command:

.. code-block:: bash

>     pip install esmvalcore

Reviewer 2: why are we dropping the --no-deps flag?

Author: Because this section explains how to install (as much as possible) from PyPI

Reviewer 2: as much as possible from PyPI is bad but hey, I checked the env contents and (most) all is from conda-forge, so am happy

To install from source for development, follow these instructions.

-  `Install pixi <https://pixi.prefix.dev/latest/installation/>`__
-  Clone the ESMValCore Git repository:
   ``git clone https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore.git``
-  Go to the source code directory: ``cd ESMValCore``

> -  Create and activate the development environment by running: ``pixi shell``

Author: ```suggestion
-  Create the development environment and start a shell in this environment by running: ``pixi shell``
```

> -  Create the development environment and start a shell in this environment by running: ``pixi shell``

Reviewer: If I understand correctly, `pixi shell` will solve the dependencies as defined in the manifest file and update the `pixi.lock` file. Since you mentioned that one advantage of Pixi is that dependencies don't need to be solved, we should mention here that one can also use `pixi shell --frozen` for a much faster installation with slightly outdated dependencies.

`pixi shell` can take a long time too run (much longer than `mamba activate` before), so we might recommend this as the default.

Author: Added this as a tip in [22fae20](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/3044/commits/22fae20728e79021cd8689b72ad002d27d52fd1a). I wouldn't expect it to take very long for ESMValCore though, since it doesn't have nearly as many dependencies as ESMValTool.
